README.md, before:

# mooc-exercises

## Local development workflow with the simulator

### Quick start

in the root of this repo, run `make start`. The first time you run it, it will download the images, it might take some time. Once it starts, you should see a `noVNC` link that looks like this:


    novnc_1               | noVNC HTML client started:
    novnc_1               | 	=> connect via http://172.20.0.2:6901/?password=...

Click on the link (the one with `http`) and you should access the graphical user interface of the container. The password is `quackquack`. This is useful to run `ros` tools. Click on `Application` in the top left, and click `terminal emulator`. You can then try `rqt_image_view` and select the available topic in the dropdown list. to view what your robot sees. Other useful tools are `rostopic list`, `rosnode info`, `rviz` and others.

You should also be able to see in the terminal where you ran `make` that a Jupyter notebook server was started:

    lanefollow_1          |     To access the notebook, open this file in a browser:
    lanefollow_1          |      http://127.0.0.1:8888/?token=594c8735d4e95585d7f3e91d57fe24c99afefde142bea2b6

Use this link to access the notebook server (make sure you use the URL that starts with `http://127.0.0.1`). In this notebook, you can click on `new` and select `terminal`. You will then have access to a shell inside the container (alternatively, you can connect to the container by using `docker exec -it $CONTAINERID /bin/bash` from a terminal). This shell also have access to ros, so it can be used to start your agent (`roslaunch my_package my_launch.launch`). We have access to everything in the `catkin/` folder, but the downside is that we do not have a GUI here.

You can now use your favorite editor on your computer and the changes will be reflected in this container. Try to make your robot complete a lap !

### How does it work ?

when you run `make start`, the following container are started by docker-compose:

* a container for roscore. We could remove this at some point but I found it easier to use this way for development
* a container running lanefollow, which should be the agent from local development workflow. It is basically what we had a udem last year: https://github.com/duckietown-udem/udem-fall19-public/blob/master/DockerfileNB
* novnc container
* simulator: the goal was to use the same container that is used in the challenge server, so it is this image: https://github.com/duckietown/challenge-aido_LF-simulator-gym/tree/mooc-exercises
* middleware: In order to be able to use the challenge server's simulator image as-is, I re-used the same code to interface it. The middleware is used to handle the fifos connections and is really close to this: https://github.com/duckietown/challenge-aido_LF/tree/daffy-aido4/experiment_manager, though it was modified to remove the need for the scenario maker and use parameters from the param file.

## Challenge submission

Since the older version of `1_develop` and `3_submit` have been merged, it should be easy to submit our agent to the AIDO challenge server. In order to submit your code, you can either modify the `lf_slim` launch file to be your launch file, or provide another launch file. To do so, modify the `Dockerfile` in the root by appending your launchfile name to the command:

`CMD ["python", "solution.py"]`
would become

`CMD ["python", "solution.py", "my_lf.launch"]`
(This will most likely be made easier through the param file, users should not modify the dockerfile)

## Description of files

* `catkin_ws/`
    * Contains the user's packages. Has `dt-core`, `dt-car-interface` and `dt-ros-commons` as submodules. (This is why the repo should be clone using `git clone --recursive git@github.com:duckietown/mooc-exercises.git`). This folder is mounted into the notebook/agent docker image in the local development workflow.
* `exercises/`
    * (Experimental, not implemented) This was intended to host the different exercises
* `docker-compose`
    * This is the file that is used to start all the containers required for the local development workflow
* `Dockerfile`
    * Needed for `dts challenge submit` and `dts challenge evaluate`. It basically packages the submission into a docker image
* `Makefile`
    * Makes it easier to clean and start the workflow properly.
* `submission.yaml`
    * required for challenge submission
* `lf_slim.launs`
    * default launch file for challenge submission
* `setup/`
    * contains all the required configuration files for local development workflow

#### Configuration files:

* `fifos-connector/`
    * This is the middleware image. Currently used locally, but is should be removed and an image from dockerhub will be used instead.
* `notebooks/`
    * Those are the exercises from last year, imported for convenience
* `utils/`
    * common code for the notebook exercises from last year
* `DockerfileNB`
    * Dockerfile for the Notebook/agent image.
* `launch_car_interface.sh`
    * convenience script to launch the car interface automatically (could be moved inside `start.sh`)
* `start.sh`
    * Entrypoint of the notebook/agent container. This will automate all the stuff required:
        * run catkin build if required (since catkin is mounted it is not always required)
        * start the car interface
        * start the notebook
        * start the ros bridge (`solution.py`)
* `requirement*`
    * pip requirement files
* `rosagent.py`
    * ros node to interface the agent. This node does not `spin()` or loop, the event handling is done in `solution.py`.
* `solution.py`
    * This file is used both by the notebook/agent image and when we submit our agent to the AIDO server. It import `rosagent` and forward all the comunication to the FIFOS. Everything that communicates with the simulator goes through this (Send commands, receive observation, etc). The line `wrap_direct(agent)` is blocking and will act as a event handler instead of `rospy.spin()`.

* `parameters.env`
    * Contains all the parameters for the containers. Can be used to tune the simulator.

### TODOS

- [ ] One recurrent issue is the framerate. The number of renders was decreased to improve speed, but having more than 15 fps would be great.
- [ ] The notebook container has not been updated since last year, everything should be moved to python3 once ente is merge into daffy
- [ ] At some point we might want to move away from docker-compose and makefile. Everything will be migrated to python and `dts mooc ...`
- [ ] The workflow to make a submission should be made as easy as possible, i.e. we should not have to edit the dockerfile. It might be possible to use `parameters.env`
- [ ] Some of the knobs for the simulator are either not implemented, not working properly or not tested. We should have every param that we need working in the param file
- [ ] All the images that we need should be moved to the duckietown dockerhub and added to CI. They should be made as dt-projects
- [ ] It might be a better experience to have noVNC and notebook/agent container in the same container. We should also make use of the dashboard for everything that we can
- [ ] We should reuse as many docker layers as possible. base images have been changed recently and making sure we reuse the new base images when possible would save time and space.
- [ ] Move as much stuff as we can into setup and out of root of the repo to make it easier to see what is actually useful to student.

Commit message:

Note for recursive clone of repo

README.md, after:

# mooc-exercises

NOTE: clone using `git clone --recursive ...`, otherwise the submodules will not be imported 

## Local development workflow with the simulator

### Quick start

in the root of this repo, run `make start`. The first time you run it, it will download the images, it might take some time. Once it starts, you should see a `noVNC` link that looks like this:


    novnc_1               | noVNC HTML client started:
    novnc_1               | 	=> connect via http://172.20.0.2:6901/?password=...

Click on the link (the one with `http`) and you should access the graphical user interface of the container. The password is `quackquack`. This is useful to run `ros` tools. Click on `Application` in the top left, and click `terminal emulator`. You can then try `rqt_image_view` and select the available topic in the dropdown list. to view what your robot sees. Other useful tools are `rostopic list`, `rosnode info`, `rviz` and others.

You should also be able to see in the terminal where you ran `make` that a Jupyter notebook server was started:

    lanefollow_1          |     To access the notebook, open this file in a browser:
    lanefollow_1          |      http://127.0.0.1:8888/?token=594c8735d4e95585d7f3e91d57fe24c99afefde142bea2b6

Use this link to access the notebook server (make sure you use the URL that starts with `http://127.0.0.1`). In this notebook, you can click on `new` and select `terminal`. You will then have access to a shell inside the container (alternatively, you can connect to the container by using `docker exec -it $CONTAINERID /bin/bash` from a terminal). This shell also have access to ros, so it can be used to start your agent (`roslaunch my_package my_launch.launch`). We have access to everything in the `catkin/` folder, but the downside is that we do not have a GUI here.

You can now use your favorite editor on your computer and the changes will be reflected in this container. Try to make your robot complete a lap !

### How does it work ?

when you run `make start`, the following container are started by docker-compose:

* a container for roscore. We could remove this at some point but I found it easier to use this way for development
* a container running lanefollow, which should be the agent from local development workflow. It is basically what we had a udem last year: https://github.com/duckietown-udem/udem-fall19-public/blob/master/DockerfileNB
* novnc container
* simulator: the goal was to use the same container that is used in the challenge server, so it is this image: https://github.com/duckietown/challenge-aido_LF-simulator-gym/tree/mooc-exercises
* middleware: In order to be able to use the challenge server's simulator image as-is, I re-used the same code to interface it. The middleware is used to handle the fifos connections and is really close to this: https://github.com/duckietown/challenge-aido_LF/tree/daffy-aido4/experiment_manager, though it was modified to remove the need for the scenario maker and use parameters from the param file.

## Challenge submission

Since the older version of `1_develop` and `3_submit` have been merged, it should be easy to submit our agent to the AIDO challenge server. In order to submit your code, you can either modify the `lf_slim` launch file to be your launch file, or provide another launch file. To do so, modify the `Dockerfile` in the root by appending your launchfile name to the command:

`CMD ["python", "solution.py"]`
would become

`CMD ["python", "solution.py", "my_lf.launch"]`
(This will most likely be made easier through the param file, users should not modify the dockerfile)

## Description of files

* `catkin_ws/`
    * Contains the user's packages. Has `dt-core`, `dt-car-interface` and `dt-ros-commons` as submodules. (This is why the repo should be clone using `git clone --recursive git@github.com:duckietown/mooc-exercises.git`). This folder is mounted into the notebook/agent docker image in the local development workflow.
* `exercises/`
    * (Experimental, not implemented) This was intended to host the different exercises
* `docker-compose`
    * This is the file that is used to start all the containers required for the local development workflow
* `Dockerfile`
    * Needed for `dts challenge submit` and `dts challenge evaluate`. It basically packages the submission into a docker image
* `Makefile`
    * Makes it easier to clean and start the workflow properly.
* `submission.yaml`
    * required for challenge submission
* `lf_slim.launs`
    * default launch file for challenge submission
* `setup/`
    * contains all the required configuration files for local development workflow

#### Configuration files:

* `fifos-connector/`
    * This is the middleware image. Currently used locally, but is should be removed and an image from dockerhub will be used instead.
* `notebooks/`
    * Those are the exercises from last year, imported for convenience
* `utils/`
    * common code for the notebook exercises from last year
* `DockerfileNB`
    * Dockerfile for the Notebook/agent image.
* `launch_car_interface.sh`
    * convenience script to launch the car interface automatically (could be moved inside `start.sh`)
* `start.sh`
    * Entrypoint of the notebook/agent container. This will automate all the stuff required:
        * run catkin build if required (since catkin is mounted it is not always required)
        * start the car interface
        * start the notebook
        * start the ros bridge (`solution.py`)
* `requirement*`
    * pip requirement files
* `rosagent.py`
    * ros node to interface the agent. This node does not `spin()` or loop, the event handling is done in `solution.py`.
* `solution.py`
    * This file is used both by the notebook/agent image and when we submit our agent to the AIDO server. It import `rosagent` and forward all the comunication to the FIFOS. Everything that communicates with the simulator goes through this (Send commands, receive observation, etc). The line `wrap_direct(agent)` is blocking and will act as a event handler instead of `rospy.spin()`.

* `parameters.env`
    * Contains all the parameters for the containers. Can be used to tune the simulator.

### TODOS

- [ ] One recurrent issue is the framerate. The number of renders was decreased to improve speed, but having more than 15 fps would be great.
- [ ] The notebook container has not been updated since last year, everything should be moved to python3 once ente is merge into daffy
- [ ] At some point we might want to move away from docker-compose and makefile. Everything will be migrated to python and `dts mooc ...`
- [ ] The workflow to make a submission should be made as easy as possible, i.e. we should not have to edit the dockerfile. It might be possible to use `parameters.env`
- [ ] Some of the knobs for the simulator are either not implemented, not working properly or not tested. We should have every param that we need working in the param file
- [ ] All the images that we need should be moved to the duckietown dockerhub and added to CI. They should be made as dt-projects
- [ ] It might be a better experience to have noVNC and notebook/agent container in the same container. We should also make use of the dashboard for everything that we can
- [ ] We should reuse as many docker layers as possible. base images have been changed recently and making sure we reuse the new base images when possible would save time and space.
- [ ] Move as much stuff as we can into setup and out of root of the repo to make it easier to see what is actually useful to student.
